[ch27246] Deprecate catalog and dataset /aggregates endpoints (#88)
opendatasoft/ods-documentation-explore-api: source/includes/v2/_dataset.md

```shell
curl 'https://documentation-resources.opendatasoft.com/api/v2/catalog/datasets/doc-geonames-cities-5000/records?where="Noa"'
```
> Grouping all records of a dataset in order to perform a count

```shell

> curl 'https://documentation-resources.opendatasoft.com/api/v2/catalog/datasets/doc-geonames-cities-5000/records?select=count(*) as count&group_by'

Reviewer: This isolated `group_by` parameter looks a bit weird without more explanation.

Should we illustrate the same query with and without `group_by` ? Or maybe just explain that `group_by` without value means something like "return only one group and compute the aggregation function over all the records" ?

```

> API reponse

```json
{
    "records": [
        {"record":
            {"fields":
                {
                    "count": 50335
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

> > Grouping records by a field name (here, `country_code`) and perform an analytic

Reviewer: analytics

```shell
# Retrieve the total number of cities with more than 5,000 inhabitants, the country code, and the total population for each country code
curl 'https://documentation-resources.opendatasoft.com/api/v2/catalog/datasets/doc-geonames-cities-5000/records?select=count(*) as num_cities,country_code,sum(population) as sum_population&group_by=country_code'
```

> > API reponse

Reviewer: response

```json
{
    "records": [
        /* ... */
        {"record":
            {"fields":
                {
                    "num_cities": 1982,
                    "country_code": "FR",
                    "sum_population": 39549205
                }
            }
        },
        /* ... */
        {"record":
            {"fields":
                {
                    "num_cities": 7197,
                    "country_code": "US",
                    "sum_population": 243520909
                }
            }
        },
        /* ... */
        {"record":
            {"fields":
                {
                    "num_cities": 43,
                    "country_code": "ZW",
                    "sum_population": 4043922
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

> > Invalid analytic on grouped records because no grouping is asked

Reviewer: analytics

is asked -> is asked for ?

```shell
curl 'https://documentation-resources.opendatasoft.com/api/v2/catalog/datasets/doc-geonames-cities-5000/records?select=country_code'
```

> > Valid analytic (here, a `sum`) on grouped records, with an aggregation function

Reviewer: analytics

Reviewer 2: I suggest "analytics", "valid `sum` analytic function" or "`sum` computation" on grouped record... based on what seems to be more explicit to you.
Open to discussion. (same thing for the other occurrences of "analytic", which is not a noun as pointed out by @mhugo.

            {"fields":
                {
                    "timezone": "America/Chihuahua",
                    "count(*)": 35,
                    "country_code": "MX"
                }
            }
        },
        /* ... */
        {"record":
            {"fields":
                {
                    "timezone": "Europe/Paris",
                    "count(*)": 1982,
                    "country_code": "FR"
                },
            }
        },
        /* ... */
        {"record":
            {"fields":
                {
                    "timezone": "Europe/Podgorica",
                    "count(*)": 25,
                    "country_code": "ME"
                }
            }
        },
        /* ... */
        {"record":
            {"fields":
                {
                    "timezone": "Pacific/Wallis",
                    "count(*)": 3,
                    "country_code": "WF"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

<aside>
It is not possible to retrieve all records from a dataset with this API. To do so, export endpoints must be used.
</aside>

##### HTTP Request
`GET /api/v2/catalog/datasets/<dataset_id>/records`

##### URL Parameters

> With the `select` clause you'll be able to chose which field to return for each record result (default to all), but also rename fields or compute new ones with functions.

Reviewer: chose -> choose

which field -> which fields ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the `select` clause, you'll be able to choose the fields to return for each record result (default to all) but also rename fields or compute new ones with functions.
```

> With the `where` clause you'll be able to filter the records results with given conditions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the `where` clause, you'll be able to filter the records results with given conditions.
```

> With the `group_by` clause you'll be able to group the records results by field name or custom grouping functions. It's useful for specific use cases or performing analytics on the dataset content. If a query contains multiple `group_by` clauses, returned groups are combined together.

Reviewer 2: "Combine together" is redundant.
```suggestion
With the `group_by` clause, you'll be able to group the records' results by field name or custom grouping functions. It's useful for specific use cases or performing analytics on the dataset content. If a query contains multiple `group_by` clauses, returned groups are combined.
```
